Selected object: microwave oven

The primary function of a microwave oven is to cook foodstuff.  The cooking 
process is enabled by creating high frequency electromagnetic waves (actually, radio waves) that 
- as they penetrate the food - 
causes the food molecules to vibrate, which causes them to give off heat. The faster
the molecules move, or vibrate, the hotter the food becomes.

Every microwave has a user interface on the front which allows the end user to set
(1) the strength of the electromagnetic waves (setting the temperature of the food),
and (2) the duration during which s/he wants the waves to be generated, which also impacts
the degree to which the food will be cooked. A typical microwave oven ramps up the 
electricity from a 120-volt wall outlet to an incredible 3,000 volts or more, in the form
of radio waves. 

What creates the heat?  The electrical energy passes to a component inside the casing called a
magnetron, which "magnifies" the electrical power available converting it into microwaves (closest
to radio waves on the spectrum.)  The energy causes water molecules - especially - and other
polar molecules to oscillate, producing heating effect.
in foodstuff, creating heat.  This heat continues to grow as more molecules are disrupted and 
electrons move.

Choosing a high power level will make the food hotter, as will extending the time during
which the microwaves are generated.  Once the user has (1) placed the food inside
the microwave, (2) closed the microwave door (safety), (3) selected the power level 
and duration, s/he presses an "on" button to initiate microwave function.  Once
the period is over (signified usually by a buzzer connected to the timer in the 
machine), the door can be safely opened and the food removed (with care - it's hot!).

There is a main component called a magnetron which is in the microwave casing that generates
microwaves, using electricity flowing to the microwave via a plug into a regular
household electricity outlet.  The magnetron changes electricity into radio waves,
and generates these, after instructed by the user.  The waves penetrate and bounce
off the food, picking up energy as they move about the interior of the metal box
wherein the food is placed.  The waves also bounce off the sides of the microwave, in which
are embedded small metal screen (in the glass front), which helps amplify the radio waves
before reflecting them back.  To assist in even distribution of energy, there is often a 
lazy Susan-type turntable on which the food is placed, and the food is rotated during
the period when the radio waves are being generated and are penetrating food.